Now that we've talked
about making that work,
making it right in terms of testing,
let's take a moment and
let's talk about a couple of
techniques use for really analyzing.
Are we building this correctly?
How do we make it faster?
How do we make it better?
And then ultimately,
how do we put it into production.
And so one of the things
that I wanna show real quick
example is the footprint
of your application and
we're gonna do this
with a bundle analyzer.
And so within this what I
want to do is in I Command
line here is I'm going
to install a package.
I already had this installed,
but I'm going to do it again.
Just because we're going to assume
that we're doing this from scratch.
So bundle analyzer and
we're going to save dev.
So this is the webpack bundle
analyzer that allows us to look at
our webpack bundles and
see what It actually consists of.
So I'm going to run this.
And it's going to install this and
so while this is installing this.
What I'm going to do is I'm going
to hop back into my code, and
I'm going to open up my package.json file.
And then from here,
I'm going to have these two commands
that I'm going to just delete.
I'm going to just re type them so
I can talk about them as I am or
offer commentary as I'm typing them.
So, I'm gonna create a new command and
it's called build stats.
And what this is gonna do is
we're gonna use ng build and
we're going to use this flag stats json.
And so
what this does is that it does a build and
it exports this json file that
has stats about the build.
And then from here I'm going to add one
more command, this is called analyze.
And within this I'm going to
go webpack-bundle-analyzer.
And then we're going to point this
to the dashboard kind of folder.
So we're when we build this it generates
a build within the disk folder so
apps dashboard/stats.
And we're looking for the stats.json
on file and so when we do the build,
it's going to build it and
it's going to create the stats.json file.
So I'm gonna save this and
hopefully the package installed correctly.
I would expect it would.
And so from here,
I'm going to go npm run, build stats.
And so we're gonna let this run and
it's gonna do a build,
but it's gonna generate
the stats.json file.
So it's gonna run the build.
And we'll give this just a second.
And we'll hop over into
the code one more time.
And we'll look in the disk folder and
within the disc folder apps dashboard.
And then you can see right here,
we have the stats.json was just has
a bunch of information about the project.
So from here,
let me go back into my command line.
And I'm going to run npm run, analyse
And what this has done and
this went to my other screen
is it generated this particular file and
loaded this up so
this is a really good way for
us to see the chunks of our application.
So we'll notice here that our vendor js,
it's pretty big,
it's 5.45 megabytes, and
our styles are okay.
Everything is fine, but really this vendor
file, this bundle is really, really big,
and so we'll notice here that maybe part
of this is angular, as you can expect.
Now the one thing that I would so
immediately is if you look
over at this section here,
it is your material components?
And I would immediately ask myself,
what components and am not using, so
I'm not using the slider,
that's 50 k gone.
I don't think I'm using the table.
And so I would go through and
I would start to remove
the things that I am not using.
So this is a really good way
to very quickly see what
is taking up all of
the space within the bundle.
And so very very simple technique.
You just run you add the webpack
bundle analyzer then within that,
you are able to essentially run a build
with the bill or the json flag.
So let me just pull this up.
One more More time.
So we start with stats json, and
then from there, you're able to analyze it
by running the web pack bundle analyzer
and pointing it to that stats.json file.
Now that we've seen how to analyze the
bundle size, and we saw that it was very,
very large,
I want to illustrate another technique for
analyzing the kind of
the state of your application.
And this is using
the dependency graph command.
So, I'm gonna hop back into my code or
my command line here,
and I'm going to run nx dep graph and
I'm going to set
the file output to, or
rather the file to be output.html.
So let's go ahead and run this.
And you'll see here that it
generated some files here.
So If we go into the output.html,
but some additional things within
the root of the application,
so I'm gonna close everything.
And then if you'll notice in the sidebar,
I now have this static folder.
But in the root of this,
I now have this output .html.
And so what I can do here is I can
just open this up in a browser.
I'll just drag this over here.
And what this allows us to
do is select our projects.
And we have three of them.
And then we can select our lips.
So right now we have three projects,
and they're totally unrelated.
But let's take like ui toolbar.
Well now we know that dashboard and
client are utilizing ui toolbar.
Testing well we've only written end
test or unit testing for dashboard so
that's why you're seeing that.
Material, so this is interesting
that dashboard client and
ui toolbar has a dependency on material.
And so I'm gonna go ahead and
just select all of these.
And what you can start to
see very quickly is that or
visualize the dependency graph
that exists within your monorepo.
And so this is a really good way when
you start to analyze dependencies and
what your application could
be dependent on you can very,
very quickly see that maybe I
do not need this dependency.
Or maybe this dependency
existed that I wasn't aware of.
And so this is a very nice
way to very quickly analyze
the dependency graph of
your entire monorepo and
get a very good idea of how
everything is connected.
So not only is this good for, I would say,
analyzing performance dependencies and
looking for ways to possibly optimize it.
But this is really good documentation.
And so what I would do here is I
would just save a screenshot or
export this in some way and
put this into even the remi.
Or some kind of a knowledge-based
to analyze the dependencies
within this application or
within the repo for
purely documentation and
onboarding into that project.
So that was, again,
very straightforward, very simple way
to surface a ton of great information
about your application very, very quickly.